# A View on Deep Reinforcement Learning in System Optimization

## First Pass (5-10 minutes)

### Category (What type of paper is this? A measurement paper? An analysis of an existing system? A description of a research prototype?)

This review paper is about reinforcement learning and its applications in system optimization.

### Context (Which other papers is it related to? Which theoretical bases were used to analyze the problem?)

This paper creates its own theoretical bases to check whether a given problem is a good fit for reinforcement learning.

### Correctness (What are the underlying assumptions?)

Does not apply.

### Clarity (Is the paper well written?)

Mostly, except a typo in the RL formulae.

- [X] Worth a second pass?

## Second Pass (1 hour)

- [X] Look at the figures
- [ ] Collect unread references
- [X] Write a 100 word summary of the paper as if you are explaining it to someone

All references are unread at this point so collecting them will be a futile exercise.

### Summary

The key takeaways from this paper for me lie in sections 5 and 7, where the authors present a set of questions to ask before applying RL to a problem and the practical challenges associated with RL in system optimization. 

The first question to ask before applying RL is whether the system optimization problem can be modelled by a Markov Decision Process (MDP), since RL basically aims to learn an unknown MDP. There should also be a delayed reward over time. Information learned from previous states should be usable in the next ones. The system should offer improvement over a Bandit solution, which is basically a 1-step RL solution (with immediate rewards). Finally, the solution should improve the state of the art.

I cannot recall the challenges all at once but I believe they were around defining a clear-cut set of policies, actions and reward function, poor problem formulation, etc.

- [ ] Worth a third pass?

Not until I find a relevant system optimization problem to work on.

## Third Pass (4-5 hours for beginners, 1 hour for experts)

- [ ] Virtually recreate the paper in your head and jot down the summary
